# What is Encryptbook?
Encryptbook is a way to encrypt/decrypt books, it's not very safe, but it can be decrypted with resource packs, anyone in vanilla using a certain resource pack made for this book can decrypt it and see the content like a normal book, while if they don't have the resource pack they can't see the content.

## How do I decrypt a message?
First, you must take into account that anyone with the mod installed could decrypt the message if you use the default asymmetricEncryptKey (which is located in the config). To avoid this, you can set a random value, or the one the person you want to communicate with tells you. You also have to make sure that you are using the same translationKeyPrefix - keep in mind that if you change this, any decryptions you have previously made will no longer work until you change the value back.

To decrypt a message, open the encryptbook GUI and set the seed you want to use. This will change the values used to decrypt and encrypt the message, and it must be the same seed that the person you are communicating with is using. Then, click the "Get decoder" button and click the message in the chat to copy it.

Next, you will need to use this example resource pack:
[Decode example.zip](https://github.com/Zailer43/FZMM-Mod/files/9523282/Decode.example.zip)

Once you have the resource pack, open it and navigate to <resource pack>/assets/minecraft/lang/en_us.json. In this file, you will need to add what you copied earlier to a Minecraft language. For example:

```json
{
   "secret_mc_0": "..."
}
```
Change it to:
```json
{
   "secret_mc_0": "...",
   "secret_mc_1": "..."
}
```
Then you have to reload the resource pack, and you can decrypt for that translation key with the asymmetricEncryptKey you were carrying at that time

## How is this possible?
What this does when encrypting is:
1. A list of non-repeating numbers in pseudorandom order is created from a seed
2. A text of the same length as the list is inserted, if it is not long enough it is filled with random characters
3. A new text is created from the previously inserted text and the number list (the order is changed according to the one in the number list)
4. The text is encrypted

And to decrypt:
1. A list of non-repeating numbers in pseudorandom order is created from a seed
2. A new text is created from the numbers by making each number refer to an index of the placeholder arguments used by minecraft in languages
3. You insert the text into a minecraft language file with the same translation key with which you encrypted it, preferably the default, en_us.json
4. Now you can decrypt